
During the last couple of years, the process of mining bitcoin has become much more difficult for hobbyists, due to the increased difficulty of verifying transactions on the network. However, one ambitious bitcoin company is actively trying to make mining an activity that individuals can easily take part in once again. 
The China-based Bitmain firm has recently announced that it will release its most powerful bitcoin mining rig so far. The R4 will reportedly be strong enough to bring mining back home, and will in fact, be the second most powerful rig on the market once released. 
Bitmain has ambitious aims, as they decided to build the miner by using 16nm chips. The Antminer R4 employs a total of 126 chips of this kind. In return, this will likely reduce the cost of electricity whilst mining, which is a leading factor in terms of the miner’s profitability. With this in mind, users can expect an average hashrate of 8.6 TH/s, alongside with a power consumption of 845W and efficiency of 0.1 J/GH.
Leaving aside the technical specifications of the Antminer R4, it is worth pointing out that it includes a couple of other exciting features. To kick things off, fans have long-been the biggest source of noise for bitcoin miners. Yet, the R4’s design team has managed to find a solution, and thus incorporated a silent split air conditioner which makes half the regular noise, and which is also automatically controlled, to ensure its efficiency. 
The R4 also comes with a modified control board, which functions via a dual-core ARM Cortex A9-based Application processor Unit (APU). The feature-rich control board also includes a programmable logic board and a processing system, all placed in a single device which also supports gigabit Ethernet speeds. 
So far, companies which built bitcoin miners didn’t really care too much about the user interface present on their products. However, the UI of the Antminer R4 has been redesigned to keep in mind the main needs of its users. With this in mind, to get started, users only have to enter their wallet address, alongside with the mining pool settings. Not only this, but the interface also allows consumers to customize other settings, such as the frequency of updates or the fan speed. To encourage hobbyists to fit this piece of equipment in their home, the Antminer R4 has been designed to fit anywhere in the house, and has been blessed with more modern looks.
 There are still a couple of questions on the profitability of the device, yet if the bitcoin price remains the same for a longer period of time, then bitcoin miners can definitely profit by purchasing the Bitmain Antminer R4. 
Based on everything that has been outlined so far, by combining looks, a better interface alongside with more energy-efficient and stronger pieces of hardware, the Antminer R4 represents a must-have for the prospective, bitcoin mining hobbyist. 

